# Water Quality and Socioeconomic Conditions

## Contributors
Nora Chian

Christopher Loch

Jacque Meyer

Eric Zhou

## Repository Contents

waterPollution.csv - Source data file from Kaggle

data_cleaning.ipynb - Code for narrowing source file down to relevant rows and columns

cleaned_data.csv - Output of data_cleaning.ipynb

analysis.ipynb - Code to perform analysis on cleaned data and generate visuals

country_stats.csv - A table generated by analysis.ipynb showing the number of bodies of water measured per country and how many years of data are available

## Project Summary
We decided to examine water quality vs. GDP and also water quality vs. population density in order to see if we could find any correlations between water quality and these factors. We set about doing this by first cleaning the data set and trying to understand limitations of the data.  

Whereas there are general assumptions that larger population density leads to greater pollution levels, or that higher GDP and therefore higher product consumption leads to greater pollution levels, and there are also inverse assumptions that lower GDP countries not having as much money to clean up or prevent pollution, our data did not bear out any conclusive evidence of cause or effect or even correlation in those areas when it comes to water impairment. Our data was limited to only a few indicators of water impairment. There is the possibility that other factors such as pharmaceuticals in the water may be higher in higher GDP countries, we did not examine those factors, so we cannot talk about that. But, our findings are not considering enough types of indicators of water impairment to make any statements on correlation between population density and water impairment or GDP and water impairment. 

## Project Analysis
### Data Source
The data source used for this project combines data from two sources:

European Environmental Agency (EEA) data measures 19 different water conditions in different bodies of fresh water across Europe. For this project's analysis, water temeprature, acidity, and dissolved oxygen concentration will be used as the main water quality measurements.

World Bank data measures socioeconomic data and waste generation breakdown by percentage. For this dataset, waste percentages are not used as this data is not neccesarily limited to waste that goes into bodies of water. The two socioeconomic conditions used are population density and GDP as they are commonly used to describe socioeconomic conditions. Additionally, other values such as net immigration have a limited timeframe. Applying these timeframes to the EEA data severely limited the amount of data available.

## Sources

### Main Datasource
https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/ozgurdogan646/water-quality-dataset

### Additional Information
https://dd.eionet.europa.eu/dataelements/75907

https://oap.ospar.org/en/ospar-assessments/quality-status-reports/qsr-2023/indicator-assessments/seafloor-dissolved-oxygen/

https://www.epa.gov/awma/factsheets-water-quality-parameters
